---
layout: ../../layouts/MarkdownPostLayout.astro
title: "Fifi has a voice and so do you"
pubDate: 2025-04-02
description: "Now is the time to stand up, stand out, and tell your story."
author: "Max Phillips"
image:
  url: ""
  alt: ""
tags: ["writing", "queer", "LGBTQ"]
---


Oh boy, this is hard. I thought I could just do this freewriting thing for [Fifi](https://fifilabouche.com). It turns out to be a lot harder when you're not using your genuine voice.

Let me fill you in a little more. I've already told you I created Fifi LaBouche in 2007. In addition to fun, queer tees, the site had (well, has) a news component. I tried to keep up with what's going on in the LGBTQ+ community. 

I have two confessions to make. The first is this: it's really hard to keep up with the news. I know for some it's second nature, it's what they do. But it's just not the kind of thing I'm build for. I'm more of a story teller. So trying to fill the site with "news" has just been really hard to maintain.

The second: *I'm Fifi LaBouche*. 

I don't know why this has been such a hard thing for me to admit. I mean *someone* has to write the content. And Fifi is a fictional character. But I've always tried to come across like Fifi was a person separate from me. Someone real. 

A little more context: I've also been posting as myself and as "staff." I've been doing it all. Fifi doesn't have a team of crack writers pumping out content. It's all me. 

Even more context: in my mind Fifi is a drag queen. I have this whole backstory for her too. But it's never something I've made public facing. And to be clear, I am *not* a drag queen. (Although I have had my fantasies about a run for *Drag Race*.)

So why am I finding it so hard to write in her voice lately?

I think maybe it's this: in the past I've always felt like I've needed to put on my "marketer voice" when creating content. You know, it had to be serious, even sterile, as to not alienate potential customers. But lately I've been seeing the benefits of being genuine and authentic. Be yourself and your audience will find you.

That's what I'm trying to do here. Find that authentic voice.

I think, in the past, Fifi was a bit of a way for me to let that authenticity out. I could talk about subjects that might be considered taboo and not let it tarnish my reputation. I could let loose and have fun, be snarky, and a little shady.

To say that I'm not using my genuine voice when writing for Fifi is a bit disingenuous. Of course it's my voice, just amped up a bit. This is something one of my acting teachers used to tell us: acting is you, just heightened. 

So, why is it so hard for me lately? I think it might be two things. I'm fining more ways to let my guard down with my public self. This blog is part of that. But the second, and probably a bigger part, is the state our Union is in right now. 

Things are terrifying for the LGBTQ+ community. In my lifetime I've seen great progress in same-sex marriage, trans visibility, workplace protections, and so much more. 

But this country is moving backward. We're erasing the "T" from the Alphabet Mafia. And don't think the rest of the letters won't soon be next. It scares the fuck out of me. 

Right now organizations are removing trans stories from our public records. States are petitioning the Supreme Court to reverse same-sex marriage that we fought so hard for. Programs that support HIV and AIDS treatment and prevention are being defunded.

They are trying to erase us.

I think this is why it's so hard for me to write as her. There is nothing fun or snarky that one can say about what is happening to us in this moment. 

But, I also understand the importance of keeping her voice——my voice——alive and in the public. 

They can try to erase us, but they won't succeed.

We need to be the keepers of our own stories. We need to be loud and keep telling our stories to anyone who will listen. 

Even to those who don't want to listen. Maybe, eventually, they will hear us. 

*Bisous*, 
Fifi / Max