---
layout: ../../layouts/MarkdownPostLayout.astro
title: "Journal your way to better mental health"
pubDate: 2025, 04, 05
description: "I can't promise it will fix all your ills, but a regular writing habit is actually good for you."
author: "Max Phillips"
image:
  url: ""
  alt: "" 
tags: ["AA", "Recovery", "Writing", "Journaling"]
---
I just saw a TikTok of [Trixie Mattel](https://www.trixiemattel.com/) asking [Kata](https://welovekatya.com/), “What do you think of people who wake up really early and journal?” That’s literally me. It’s 5 am and I’m here with my coffee.

“*‘Oh my dream! I better write down my dream! What if I forget my dream?’* Girl, If you forget your dream it was not that interesting.”

Such biting truth. 

Trixie is one of the funniest queens out there. She has this super dry humor and such a sharp tongue. And, fuck, did I just feel it. I think I’m taking this writing thing too seriously. Like my words are *so* precious, or what I have to say is *so* damming it will be used against me?

What I have to say is not that interesting.

Yet, here I am. So, why do I do it? It’s not for you, whoever you are—whether you’re actually someone in the future reading this, or just the made up audience I talk to in my head—it’s for me. 

I have kept a journal of some sort or other since I was a teen. Unfortunately those early tomes have all been destroyed. Or lost. Oh, gods, I hope they’re not lost and in the hands of a stranger.

See? There I go again. I’m really going to stress over the words of a depressed, angsty teen?

But, really, why do I journal? (Or, blog, in this case.) Just to get it out of my head. All the junk. All the *stuff* swirling around inside there. To give the voice in my head a voice in the real world.

Something I learned in [AA](https://www.aa.org/), something a friend of mine in the rooms (AA shorthand for *the rooms of AA*) used to say that sharing your thoughts and feelings, out loud, with others actually altars your brain chemistry.

I don’t know about that. As in I’ve never personally verified that information, so I won’t be one of those who shares the headline without reading the story.[^1]

Here’s what I do know: When I say a thing outloud, it make it real. I can hear it, examine it, let it go. Sometimes the thing that’s been bouncing around inside that Charlie Brown noggin of mine is the absolute stupidest thing that’s ever been thought. *If you let it out, you can let it go*.

More importantly, sharing your story can inspire others. Even the most mundane of things we share allows other to see themselves in our words. It helps make connections. 

That’s what journaling has always been for me. A way to let it out, and a way to connect with *myself*. 

As I’m writing this, I realize that this is something I’ve been missing since I stopped going to AA.

“Whoa, whoa, whoa!” I hear you say, “Aren’t you a recovering alcoholic, don’t you *need* to go to meetings?” For some, yes, that’s true. They get into recovery and go to meetings for the rest of their lives or run the risk of relapsing. 

Then there are those of us that believe AA is a cult.  

Don’t get me wrong, and if you happen to be a real person reading this, who needs help and is thinking about going to a meeting, go. Right now. Put down the phone, shut down the computer, walk away from whatever device you’re consuming this on and go. 

AA saved my life.

I’m not saying that for dramatic effect. I believe it to be true. For at least ten years before joining I had tried to get sober on my own. I was, what I used to call, a *Monday quitter.* “I’m not going to drink this week,” I’d think. I would start the week out strong, but by Thursday or Friday (sometimes Wednesday or Tuesday) I’d be drinking again. And I’d just tell myself, “I’ll start again on Monday.” A “Monday” quitter.

So, what happened? Why did I quit going to AA? I’m not sure exactly, it wasn’t any one thing. I think I just out grew it. I have another friend who used to tell me, “you should go to meetings again. Not for you, for the new people. They need to hear your story.”

I see the wisdom in that. When I was first in recovery I hung on every word of every story told, looking for some commonality. I don’t know, maybe looking for a reason to believe I wasn’t an alcoholic. Or, maybe for a reason to believe I was. But, when those who had a year, five years, *twenty* years would talk? I would listen more intently. *How did they do it?* 

Now, here I am with well over 13 years and I could be encouraging others with my story. So, why don’t I? Well, for one thing, I live in Colombia. I’ve looked and, despite the rhetoric, *we* are not everywhere. Something they used to tell us in meetings is that no matter where you go in the world you can find a meeting. But, no luck here. 

The other thing has to do with Covid, I suppose. Though it started long before that. I was still in Lancaster when I stopped going. But, after I had moved to Seattle I met a guy who had just gotten into the program. It encouraged me, and we stared going to meetings together.

Then lockdown happened and shut it all down. I tried online meetings for a while, but it just didn’t hit the same.

So, why do I call it a cult? 

> **cult | kəlt |**
> *noun*
> 
> a relatively small group of people having beliefs or practices, *especially relating to religion*, that are regarded by others as strange or sinister or as *imposing excessive control over members*

It’s the religion for me. Ask any member and they’ll tell you “AA is agnostic, it’s not about religion.” Yet, nearly every meeting is closed with the lord’s prayer. And the Twelve Steps are littered with giving over control to their god. 

I say *their* god because I am not a christian. I subscribe to no religious belief nor belong to any religious organization. (Ready for the cliché?) But I am spiritual. 

I did find some like-minded folks among the members. Hell, I even discovered meditation and Buddhism at one meeting I attended regularly. But over all it was difficult to be non-christian among the folks of AA. I suppose it very much reflects what is going on in the U.S. right now. 

Religious zealots never see their *zealousness*, do they? 

So, to wrap this all up: Why do I wake up at 5am to write each morning? It’s my talk therapy and replacement for AA meetings. A way to clear the junk from my head.

Takeaway number two: If you think you need it, go to AA. Or see a therapist. Or get into rehab. Get help, I promise you, it will get better.

Just watch out for the zealots.

[^1]: I couldn't let it go:
[Talking out loud to yourself is a technology for thinking](https://psyche.co/ideas/talking-out-loud-to-yourself-is-a-technology-for-thinking) // 
[Can Thoughts and Action Change Our Brains?](https://www.npr.org/2007/02/02/7131130/can-thoughts-and-action-change-our-brains) // 
[*The Artist's Way* and Morning Pages](https://juliacameronlive.com/)