---
layout: ../../layouts/MarkdownPostLayout.astro
title: Write your story and let it take you where it will
pubDate: 2025-04-01
description: Life is a lot like writing. You don't always know where you're going to end up when you set out. But sometimes you're pleasantly  surprised at the outcome.
author: Max Phillips
image: 
  url: ""
  alt: ""
tags: ["Colombia", "Writing", "Grindr"]
---
I hate days like this.

I have no clue what to write. So I just keep writing. It’s a technique called *freewriting.*[^1] If you just keep your fingers moving over the keys (or your pen over the paper) words will come out. Will they be good words or arranged in any coherent order? Who knows. But, given enough time, if you do it and don’t stop you will eventually have something written.

That’s what I’m doing today. I have no plan, no direction. I’m just writing. 

I suppose, in a way, that’s how I ended up in Colombia. (See, I told you this would be [a story for another day](/posts/2025-03-31).) But, where to begin? The day I got on the plane? No not enough context. The day I said goodbye to Andrés and promised him I’d come to Colombia? Maybe. But maybe you need just a smidge *more* context.

I was living in Lancaster, Pennsylvania. I had been there for 13 years by this time. I hate to do this to you, but the circumstances of how I ended up there is—again—a story for another day.

I was recently single, and on the very last day of my first professional theater performance. (And my last, as of this writing.) 

I hadn’t been in the dating world for a very long time, so Grindr was my go-to for meeting guys. Lancaster only has one gay bar, and given my history with alcohol, I wasn’t a fan of hanging out there. 

I’m sitting at my station, taking off my makeup and costume for the very last time when get a notification. I won’t bore you will *all* the details, but there was something different about this Grindr conversation. 

For the uninitiated, here’s how a typical Grindr conversation goes:

**Him:** hey

**Me:** Hey

**Him:** whats up

**Me:** Not much, you?

**Him:** chillin

**Me:** Nice. 

**Him:** Wanna fuck?

Not exactly stimulating conversational. But, in this case, I found something interesting in his profile and we struck up a conversation. Next thing I know we’re having coffee at a local shop, and then... well, it turns out I *did* want to fuck.

Then, something else happened. We keep seeing each other. And next thing you know we’re staying at an AirBnB in Philly, celebrating my birthday. 

This, of course, is the Andrés I alluded to earlier. It turned out that he was a Colombian who had recently moved to the U.S. for work. In fact, this was his first week in Lancaster. 

His work eventually took him across the country to Seattle, and that’s when I had a decision to make. 

You see, I had hoped to leave Lancaster, even before we had met. After walking away from my agency, getting sober, and the ending of my relationship, I felt like I needed a fresh start. 

I thought about New York. I had always wanted to live in New York. Cliché, right? But I had this nagging feeling it would just eat me up and leave me for dead. I might even start drinking again. 

I had also considered L.A. In spite of the fact that the city and I had a history that I wasn’t quite over yet, it was the best plan I had at the time. I even had a job secured and was ready to make the move.

I just wasn’t sure if it was what I really wanted. 

When Andrés got the news that Seattle would be his next destination (there were a few others on the table, including L.A.) that’s when I made the decision; I too would move to Seattle. 

Now, Seattle had never been on my radar. Not to live in, anyway. Sure, it had that appealing charm from film and TV, but I just never considered *actually* living there. But it turned out to be one of the best moves I’ve ever made.

I arrived in November of 2019, a rental truck stuffed with all of my worldly possessions, and my Volkswagen Rabbit in tow. Andrés had already been there for a couple of months, so I had made this journey solo.

I’m sure, for those paying attention, you can see what’s about to happen. Covid. We had only a few month of exploration in our new city before lockdown hit. But we did the best we could, got to experience quite a bit in our year there, and came to love the place. 

But how did I end up in Colombia? The thing is, from the first day we met, I knew his time in the U.S. was limited. The job was temporary and he only had a two year visa. It did get extended six months, due to lockdown, but it didn’t change the fact that he would have to return to Colombia.

I had another decision to make. 

Would I stay in Seattle, this new city that I was just coming to know and love? Or would I follow Andrés to a country some 3,000 miles away? 

For context, Seattle wasn’t on my radar, but this? Colombia? I barely even knew it existed. To me this was some foreign land where Juan and his donkey wandered the hills picking coffee beans. Not a place I’d seriously consider moving to.

To complicate things even further, if I did go, I wouldn’t be allowed to stay more than 90 days at a time, and no more than six month in any given year. 

Here’s where this story is a lot like freewriting. When I started on this Journey with Andrés, it was to get a coffee and maybe some fun along the way. I had no idea it would take me all the way from drinking coffee, to the land of coffee. But, it did. I just kept moving, with no particular plan, and let the story unfold. 

In August of 2021, six months after Andrés had returned to his home in Colombia, I arrived in Bogotá. I still had no plan, and I had no idea what was to come next. All I knew was that I had finished one chapter and a new one was about to begin. 

I guess life, in general, is a lot like writing in that way. You may start with a plan, or have no plan at all when you set out. Eventually you look back and see the moments that worked out how you pictured them in your head. And you see those moments that you never could have predicted in a million years.

Never in a hundred-million years would 2018 Me have guessed that 2025 Me would be sitting here, in Colombia, coffee in hand, writing in this brand new blog. 

Just. Keep. Writing.

---

[^1]: [Accidental Genius](https://www.levyinnovation.com/books-by-mark-levy/) by Mark Levy is where I fist heard of the concept of freewriting. I’ve been using it ever since.