---
layout: ../../layouts/MarkdownPostLayout.astro
title: "Hotel California and the early checkout"
pubDate: 2025, 04, 03
description: "It was suppsed to be the trip of a lifetime. Not every story has a happy ending."
author: "Max Phillips"
image:
  url: ""
  alt: "" 
tags: ["New York", "Los Angeles", "Colorado", "road trip", "near death experience"]
---

I almost died in L.A.

No, that’s not hyperbole. That actually happened. I’m going to tell you the story but I’m going to change some of the names. This isn’t one of those scandalous tell-alls. This is just a story that happened to me. And I don’t need to be airing other peoples dirty laundry.

You’ll need to take a trip with me in the way-back-machine to 1994. It was winter and I was working as an associate manager at a [Village Inn](https://www.villageinn.com) in a suburb of Denver, Colorado. A job that I absolutely hated. 

It’s one of those situations where I got enough *‘atta boys* from the higher-ups to make me think that working 80 hours a week (for less money per hour than I was making as a server) was a good idea. I was young and naive.

By that point I had been seeing “Jimmy”——yeah, let’s call him Jimmy——for a few years now. We had even moved in together. Jimmy and I had met another guy, Darren (wink, wink), and the three of us became inseparable.

And, no, this was not a throuple situation. We all just really clicked and quickly the three of us became best friends. Darren had this quirky idea that he was going to A) buy a Mac and printer, B) start a printing business, that would C) fund his real dream: creating the world’s first interactive graphic novel.

You have to remember, this was the mid-nineties. We didn’t have access to the internet yet. I remember the excitement of getting the Cranberry’s *video* CD——YouTube’s equivalent of writing on stone tables. Comics come to life on your computer? Ground breaking. 

Jimmy and I were both artists and Darren thought we could provide the art and he could put together the code to make it work. It was an ambitious idea, and we were all in on it. 

There was one weird catch. He wanted to move to Los Angeles to do the work. I don’t remember why. None of us had any ties to the city, whatsoever.

I didn’t even question it. I had already moved across the country——from New York to Colorado——on a whim only a few years earlier. So I was down for packing up and taking off on a new adventure. 

Plus, as I mentioned, my job as a manager in a dumpy, regional family restaurant was *not* working out as I’d hoped. 

Early in 1995 the three of us packed all of our stuff into a 26 foot Uhaul, strapped my ancient, banged up Volkswagen GTI to the back, and set out for California.

We arrived in L.A. with no plans. We didn’t know anyone there, had no jobs lined up, we didn’t even have a place to stay. But, some how we found a storage place to dump the majority of our stuff, and a room in this charming, old hotel in Culver City. 

Honestly, I don’t remember the name and I wish I could. It was this cool old place, but it was under renovation so it was cheap.

At least that’s what we told ourselves. For all I know, it was really a dump. We just couldn’t see it through the eyes of youth and inexperience. Truth is, I’ve always been a sucker for an old building. Something about the ghosts of its history is appealing to me.

I should give you a little backstory on my romantic history with Jimmy. We had met when I first arrived in Colorado in 1992. It was up and down for us. I was really in love (as in love as one can be at such a that age), but he had never really gotten over his ex. 

The “other man” that he still yearned for was military. This was the age of *[Don't Ask, Don't Tell](https://www.history.com/articles/dont-ask-dont-tell-repeal-compromise)*. Whole careers were ruined over even a hint of queerness. The short of it is this: The ex chose the military over the relationship. Jimmy *claimed* he understood the reasoning, but never *really* let it go.

Back then, I didn’t understand intricacies of the human heart (or libido) and certainly didn’t know about polyamory. I was still fashioning my life and relationships on cis, white, heteronormative conventions. I know better now.

All this is to say: I was jealous of the ex. So Jimmy and I had broken up. Yet the three of us (he, Darren, and I) remained friends. We started our journey to California out as three besties. Nothing more.

Of course, it’s naive to believe that there’s never anything more to human nature. 

Darren was in love with me. I knew it. Jimmy knew it. We all had known it for a while. Thing is, I did not reciprocate the feeling. I loved Darren——but I didn’t *love* him. For a long time it was just an unspoken dynamic between the three of us.

Although Jimmy and I begun the journey has fiends, by the time we made it to the twisted highways of L.A. we were back together. A fact that would later push us all to new places.

The breakup led Darren to believe that he and I had a shot. I’m not exactly sure what was going through his mind, but it seems like he built this story that the two of us would now be free to be a couple. 

He never told me any of this. 

A few weeks have gone by now, we’ve all been looking for jobs and finding no luck. Darren was working diligently on the comic, while Jimmy and I worked on stories and art. It was going O.K., but things were getting a little tense. The three of us cramped in one small room was starting to wear on us all.

To blow off some steam we all decided to go out one night. None of us were what you’d call club kids, but we did enjoy a night out. This is pre-grindr so the only way to meet anyone was to go to bars. Not that Jimmy and I were looking. But, you know, there’s something about being among your people.

I don’t remember exactly where we ended up going——Darren had a copy of [Damron's](https://damron.com/products/damron-travel-guides) that had the local bars listed. All I remember is, it was a bit of a drive to get there. 

Time spent at the bar is a complete blur. I don’t remember most of it. But I do remember this: Darren had taken off on his own. All night he’d been agitated. In fact, had been more and more restive in the week leading up to this night. The minute we arrived he had disappeared.

The night wore on and Jimmy and I grew tired. We wanted to head back to the hotel. But Darren was nowhere to be found. Eventually we did find him——in a terrible state. I’d never seen him like this. He was belligerent, and angry, and acting out in ways that were uncharacteristic for him.

Darren was a big guy, well over six feet. And he carried a large mass on his frame as well. Not *fat* but substantial. To look at him one might assume he was a bruiser. In truth he was a thoughtful, gentle soul. He and I had spent hours discussing philosophy, movies, music, and life in general. He was a thinker, not a fighter.

But not this night. He looked ready to take on the whole bar. There was a fire in his eyes that scared me. This was not the Darren I knew.

We tried to take him home, pleaded with him that he’d had enough enough for one night and should call it a day. He refused. No matter what we said, he would not listen to us. Instead he slipped onto the crowded dance floor, looked back at us and said, “Go. I’ll find my own way home.”

So we did. Reluctantly. The three of us hadn’t been separated since we set out on our journey. It felt strange leaving him behind, especially given the agitated state he was in. What choice did we have? He was an adult, he made his decision.

Back at the hotel the two of us slipped into bed silently and drifted off. The events of the night had us both shook, but it was late and sleep took as easily. 

Some time later there was a terrible clatter that abruptly woke us both. Darren had returned. And he was pissed. If I had seen a another side of him at the bar, this was a completely different man. He was raging, yelling, out of his mind. He accused Jimmy of “stealing” me away from him, of poisoning my mind against him. 

He yelled, wailed, cried about how unfair it was and how everyone was against him. The television was launched across the room. Furniture was flung. Then, he lunged after Jimmy, pinning him to the ground. I thought he’d kill him. I thought he’d kill us both——then himself. 

Not knowing what to do, I grabbed for the first heavy object I could find——an iron. I didn’t want to hurt him, but he was hurting Jimmy, I had to stop him. 

I though maybe this would be like the movies, I’d just give him a good whack over the head and knock him out. He’d wake up and be fine, maybe a bit of a headache, and that would be it. 

I raised the iron over my head, poised and ready to strike, but I just couldn’t bring myself to do it. I froze in fear, not wanting to hurt my friend, but also wanting to help my boyfriend. 

Then he stopped. He just stopped and the energy in the room shifted. No longer angry, no longer raging, he was just completely still. He had given up the fight. He mumbled something about not being fair and that he should just kill himself and end it all. 

We were stunned.

Then, in a flash, he was at the windows. These weren’t the bullshit portals of modern hotels one could barley put a hand through. These were tall, spacious windows of a formerly grand hotel; they opened nearly the full height of his tall frame. 

He jumped up on the short window bench and threw the window open the to it’s full measure. He stood there, looming over us, framed by the open window. Bizarrely, it was like a scene from one of his beloved graphic novels. The dark nemesis about to make some profound declaration before making his escape. 

“If I can be with you, I don’t want to be with anyone.” That’s the last thing I remember him saying before he turned toward the open window. 

Without thinking Jimmy and I lunged for him and immediately felt the full weight of our mistake. Here we were, Darren half out the window, the two of us with our arms wrapped around his waist and legs. 

He begged, he pleaded, “Let me go. Just let me die.” It was heartbreaking and terrifying. I had a sudden flash of the three of us free-falling the full fives stories to the parking lot below.

We didn’t let go.

It’s an over-used trope in film and TV, but it actually happened; time dilated. What was probably only a struggle of a few moments, somehow stretched out to infinity. In my mind we were at the window, falling through the air, and already dead simultaneously. 

Then, as before, he just stopped. Gave up the struggle and walk out of the room without another word. The loud “click” of the door locking itself behind him broke our stunned silence, and we could finally breath again. We were safe. For now.

In hindsight, what happened next was a terrible misstep on my part. Jimmy was traumatized by the whole experience and was in no condition to make rational decisions. It was left to me and I take responsibility for it. 

I called the police. 

I was still under the impression back then that the police are our friends. *You get lost, find an officer*, that’s what Mom and Dad always told me. And I was worried about Darren. I knew I couldn’t handle him on my own, and Jimmy was a mess, he needed my emotional support. So I felt like I was doing the right thing.

I wish things had played out differently. Both that night and the next morning. 

They only held Darren for a few hours. The cops never even asked to talk to us. *Another drunk* they probably thought and let him sleep it off in lockup. 

When he came back to the hotel the next morning, we refused to see him. Jimmy was such a wreck, the only thing I could think to do was get him out of the city. He was paranoid Darren was going to hunt him down and kill him.

I called my Mom, borrowed and ungodly amount of money for someone with no job, and rented a truck. It wasn’t until we were packing up our stuff at the storage place that we saw Darren again. 

He begged us not to go, to not abandon him. As someone in recovery, I’m not supposed to have regrets. But this is definitely one of them. The last time I saw Darren, he was standing in the empty parking lot, totally lost and dejected. We simply drove away and never looked back. 

In the years since the incident I’ve looked for him now and then, but I never found him. Not a word. Not a note in the papers of accomplishments, not an obituary, nothing. 

I’ve always wondered what happened to him. And as I got sober I had hoped to see him again, to at least have the opportunity to make an amends. 

Life doesn’t work like it does in movies. We can’t always have a nice little bow on things to wrap up a story. Sometimes things are left unsaid, and undone. We simple have to accept it. 