---
title: "Tim, Fifi, and the long, queer road to recovery"
pubDate: 2025-03-31
description: "What do you do with 14 years of sobriety, a failed t-shirt business, and a need to connect with people? Start a blog."
heroImage: ""
heroAlt: ""
tags: ["recovery", "queer", "sobriety", "LGBTQ", "journaling"]
---

Tim told me to write a blog, post it online, and don’t tell anyone. 

A secret, yet public, place to share your thoughts. *How exhilarating*. How strange. Yet, for him, this strange habit turned into a successful business—several, actually.

Okay, I have to come clean. Tim didn’t tell *me* to write a blog, he told several thousand people (maybe more?) in the video I first saw him in. And it wasn’t even his idea. He got it from Seth. But still...  it seems like good advice for someone who has always loved to journal.

Who the fuck are Tim and Seth? [Tim Stodz](https://www.timstodz.com) and [Seth Godin](https://seths.blog). Seth I had heard of before. Tim? Not so much. But I wish I had known about him sooner.

You see, we have something in common: we’re both sober. And we both got into recovery around the same time. For me it was July 14, 2011. I think he had more than a year by that time.

Honestly, back then, going a whole year without drinking seemed impossible. But, the good folks in that first meeting (and each subsequent meeting) kept telling me “Just take it one day at a time,” and they were right.

I used to bristle at sayings like this—such a cliché, *so fucking cheesy*. But, by the time I came to my first [AA meeting](https://www.aa.org), it didn’t matter. Nothing mattered, except finding a way to make the pain go away. Drinking wasn’t doing it, in fact drinking was making it all worse. Something needed to change. And, at that point I would do anything, *anything*, to stop.

So, that’s what I did. I went to meetings every day. Two and three times some days. And I kept doing that util the thought of having a drink just wasn’t a part of me any more.

“Work it, you’re worth it,” another one of those cheesy mottos. But they were right. It took several years to get here, but it *was* worth it.

Of course, that’s not what I really wanted to talk about. I want to talk about why I’m so inspired by Tim. I didn’t know exactly why I was at first, but now I think I do.

You see, at the time I got sober, I was partners in a fledgling design and marketing business in [Lancaster, Pennsylvania](https://lancasterpa.com). This eventually grew to include [Lancaster’s first co-working space](https://candyissweet.com), and we were starting to build something I could really be proud of.

The problem is, I wasn’t. I wasn’t proud of anything I had done, or was doing. The drink saw to that. In early 2011 I marched into my partner’s office and unceremoniously told her that I was done, I wanted out.

And I left. I left the friends I had made, the network of people I had started to build, and the business that had been a long-time dream of mine. I just threw it all away, and had no idea what I would do next.

Part of me wishes I hand’t done it. But a bigger part of me knows I *had* to do. Because, if I hadn’t, I never would have found my way to the rooms of AA in the coming months.

*“We will not regret the past nor wish to shut the door on it.”*

But, I have a secret. I have always regretted the decision to walk away from that business. And I know now that, by not admitting it, it’s held me back. I’ve done a lot since then that I am proud of, but I’ve never seemed to be able to get the mojo of the early days of the agency back.

I know, *I know*, you’re probably asking, “what does this have to do with Tim?”

Tim, some 15 years after getting into recovery, is running the Stodzy agency (and several others) a very successful internet marking company. He’s living the life that I was on-track to have when I got sober.

Look, I know it’s not the same. We’re different people with different paths in life. And, at this point in my life, I’m not even sure *that’s* what I want anymore. My life now has no resemblance to the life I had back then. I don’t even live in the U.S. any more!

Did I forget to mention that I live in Colombia? A story for another day.

So, where am I going with all of this? The short answer: [Fifi LaBouche](https://fifilabouche.com). The long answer is also a story for another day. But here’s the **tldr**: after I got sober I began making T-shirts. And, let’s just say it wasn’t as successful as I had hoped.

I never did give up hope on that idea, and this year I’ve decided to revive her. But I also knew that Fifi could be so much more than just pedaling apparel at pride events. Fifi could be a place for the queer and trans community to come together. A place where we can celebrate Queer Joy, something we definitely all need in this current political climate.

How do all these random dots connect or make any kind of sense, whatsoever?

Tim wrote about what he knew at the time: recovery. That turned into [Sober Nation](https://sobernation.com), now a national resource for those looking to get into recovery.

Why couldn’t I do the same with Fifi?

I had already come up with the idea that Fifi needed to include a directory. We would start aggregating businesses that are LGBTQ+ owned or are allies to the community.

That’s when I stumbled upon Tim’s story.

While building out the new site, and researching directories, I found an [interview with Tim](https://youtu.be/DeYkm4RW9Nk?si=t5N_1OJNydnaYXXt). At first I thought, “this is just some douchey dude-bro tying to sell me a get-rich-quick course.” But I was wrong. Immediately I was drawn in by his easy demeanor and earnestness. He had zero pretense.

I resonated with him and his story. And I started to see how I could model his success into a strategy for Fifi.

This, then, finally brings us to the point I’ve so skillfully been avoiding this whole time. This, right here. You’re reading it. *Tim told me to write a blog, post it online, and not tell anyone*.

Am I all in? I have no fucking clue. Only time will tell. Like they say in AA, “one day at a time.” And this is day one.