---
title: "Shift your perspective"
pubDate: 2025-04-09
description: "Sometimes it's easier to see the shortcomings of others and not those in ourselves. Writing helps me focus on what's important."
heroImage: ""
heroAlt: "" 
tags: ["dreams", "communication"]
---
I had a strange dream last night. I was in some office, and a woman was helping me. I’m not sure I was there, but I was filling out a form, while she was entering information on a computer. 

She was speaking Spanish. Until she wasn’t. 

I was struggling to understand her and communicate (just like real life). Then, all of a sudden, she starts speaking English. Like, *bitch, you spoke English this whole time?* She was explaining to me that they had to enter the information in a certain way, that it had to be all caps (or, at least, some of it). She also went on to say this was the reason she had to ask me certain questions in a certain way. She also told me she would be getting a new system soon. 

That’s pretty much all I remember. I have no idea what it means. I’m sure the whole entering info into a computer has to do with Andrés’s job. That’s what he does now. He’s been talking to people about their disability cases and the script is pretty rote. So that’s where that came from. But sometimes, even when it’s obvious where the symbolism comes from, it has a deeper meaning. 

I’ve always had the ability to hear someone’s dream and give them a fairly accurate interpretation of what it means *for them.* I have never been able to do this for myself. I suppose I could look at the facts and say, “well it’s about communication and being misunderstood.” And, on the surface, that’s a pretty good take. But for other people? I don’t know, it’s always something deeper. I can’t even think of an example right now. But I can tell you what it’s like; it’s like reading the Tarot.

I’m pretty good with reading the Tarot too. Yes, I’ve studied the cards and their meanings. Yes, I used those meanings to work out an initial message. But, there’s alway something deeper. An intuition that comes out and I’m able to see connections *between* the cards and what it means for the querent. I do that same thing with dreams. 

What’s the point? I guess it’s just one of those things. It’s so much easier to read other people. But we can’t read ourselves. It’s like we’re too close, we know too much about ourselves, it muddies the message. And I’m not just talking about the Tarot or dreams. I mean life, in general.

For example, it’s easy to see the pattern when that friend of yours is going back to the type of guy he swears he’ll never date again. You *know* that it's going to be a bad outcome, yet your warnings go unheaded. But, you only have to wait a few weeks or so to find out you were right. 

Basically you see people making the same mistakes over and over again and not leaning the lesson. Yet, you can never see that pattern in yourself. 

In AA they call that the definition of insanity. Doing the same thing over and over, yet expecting a different outcome.[^1] I sure have experienced that enough in my lifetime. Even in sobriety I find myself making the same mistakes over and over again. Only to ask myself afterwards, *why did I not see that coming.*

> The definition of insanity is doing the same thing over and over again and expecting a different result.

This is a valuable reason for sharing our thoughts aloud. When you take a thought that’s been rattling around in your head and make it real, you can hear it. Hear the truth of it. Sometimes you’re right on the money, a lot of the times it’s a malformed notion that needs to be disposed of.

There are times when we say a thing and we still don’t hear the truth of it. But, if a trusted advisor is there to listen, they can help you to see it. In AA that is what sponsors are for. At least, that's how I always tried to approach sponsorship.

For me, right now, that trusted advisor is writing. I have always found that committing my thoughts to words is a good way to process them. But, more than that, it’s a way for me to self-examine patterns that may be forming. It’s a way to get a little distance from and perspective on my own life. I often find that——even in ramblings like this one——a theme emerges, a topic that’s been subconsciously gnawing at me shows itself and I'm able to take a close look at it.

In fact, it’s just like this very moment. I had no clue when I started writing today that this would be the topic I’d be exploring. Yet, looking back at the beginning, it’s all there.

In the beginning of the dream I was frustrated, trying to communicate, trying to get help. When I looked around and really saw what was happening, how the system works, suddenly I could understand what the woman was saying. So, did she start speaking a language I could understand, or did I just shift my perspective?

A detail I left out: After she had told me about the “system” she had to use, it reminded me of a similar situation I was once in. I had empathy for her. I understood the position she was in. Simply by shifting my perspective to hers, my situation seemed less dire. 

This is another principal of AA: By helping others we help ourselves. I have found myself feeling very inwardly focused lately. As a result, my problems, even the most mundane of them, have been magnified. Making me feel like nothing seems to be going right. But, when I take a step back, see things from someone else’s perspective, I can see that things are not really that bad. 

This is the wisdom I will take away today. And the reason I keep writing, looking for different results.

[^1]: Often attributed to Einstein, yet believed to be a mistake. There is evidence that this popped up in AA’s sister organization, Al-Anon in 1981. | [Quote Origin: Insanity Is Doing the Same Thing Over and Over Again and Expecting Different Results](https://quoteinvestigator.com/2017/03/23/same/) 