---
title: "Rich man, poor man, and a wealth of knowledge"
pubDate: 2025, 04, 07
description: "Know the difference between being rich and wealthy? For a long time I didn't. I'm still not sure that I do."
heroImage: ""
heroAlt: "" 
tags: ["wealth", "money"]
---
Well, the world markets are in free fall. It seems Dumpy Dump got his wish. These tariffs he’s imposing on every country—except his buddy in Russia, of course—are causing investors to panic and sell everything. I’m no financial expert, but I guess that’s what’s happening. I’m hearing rumors that this is going to be worse than the recession of ‘08. 

He’s doing it for a reason; his billionaire cronies. Step one: crash the economy, people loose their investments in stocks, homes, etc. Step two: Billionaires buy it all up at pennies on the dollar. Step three: the economy bounces back, and those slimy, greedy bastards have successfully gobbled up more wealth for themselves. 

I’ve been thinking about wealth a lot lately. It’s never something I’ve paid much attention to or cared about. I heard a quote that said something like this: there’s a difference between being rich and being wealthy. Rich means you have money, wealth means you have assets. 

It’s something [Tim Stoddart](https://youtu.be/Al9y0FGuuMQ?si=TWGxlnClXsYQxjHT) said in one of his videos, but I can’t remember who he attributed it to.[^1] The gist of it is this: you work to earn money and become rich. To be wealthy you let your money do the work. 

That’s what he means by assets. Not a home or a car or a painting. He means investing in things that that will return money to you.

The truth is I’ve been terrible with money my whole life. I always figured I just need a roof over my head and food in my pantry—that was my measure of success. 

The older I get the more I see how naive that is. Having wealth—even a modicum of wealth—can change so much in your life. Especially if you live in the U.S. 

Actually I take that back, having *money* can change your life. But, again, money does not equal wealth. You can get a great job, earn an amazing salary, and have all the material things you ever dreamed of. But, if after it’s all said and done, you had no time to enjoy it, what’s the point?

So, wealth is also about time. Having the time to enjoy life. 

This is such a weird moment for me; thinking about wealth in this way is not something I’m used to. 

I come from a poor family. As kids, my sister and I never *knew* we were poor. But, looking back, I clearly see how my family struggled.

In the seventies my Dad and his business partner worked their asses off to grow a small TV sales and repair shop, only to have it crushed by the introduction of big box stores and disposable technology. 

Being poor is the mindset that I grew up with. It’s a hard habit to break. And being wealthy is not something anyone teaches you in school, or at home, or in life. It’s a hard lesson you have to learn on your own. I had to wait until my fifties to learn it. 

And I’m still learning it—I should say that I’m *unlearning* what I think I know about money and wealth.

Here’s an example. We grew up with relatives that, in my Dad’s mind, were rich. Compared to us they certainly had more. A lot more. The dad worked in finance, they had a nice house, the kids didn’t have to wear hand-me-downs, and the gifts they would send at Christmas were always nicer than the ones “Santa” left under the tree. 

I also remember the recession in the eighties. The family hit hard times when unemployment skyrocketed and the dad lost his job. They were still better off than we were but I remember my parent’s making a big deal about it. 

I think it almost made my Dad happy to see them struggle. Like it somehow brought them down to our level. It never occurred to my Dad that he could be on another level—a higher one.

Looking back now, I realize that this is the perfect example of what I’m talking about. Yes, they were rich, they even bounced back after the recession. But having that money depended on the dad having a steady job, having money coming in week after week. They were *rich* but not *wealthy.*

So, what does all this mean? I guess it really has to do with mindset more than anything. I grew up with certain beliefs about money and they have persisted throughout my entire life. Even today I still struggle to *feel* different about it, even though I *know* different. 

This happens to us all the time. We take in all these things at an early age and hold on to them for the rest of our lives. 

*Unless we take the time to examine our beliefs.*

I’ve been doing that a lot lately, examining my beliefs. Trying to make sense of this world and my place in it. I still don’t have a lot of answers. In fact, I just have more questions. 

Here’s what I do know: If I ever figure this wealth thing out, I want to use it for good. I want to help others with it. Unlike the billionaire class, I actually care about what happens to other people.

Something that my old partner in [our co-working venture](https://candyissweet.com) used to say is: “rising tides lift all boats.” She really believed that her success was enhanced by the success of those around her. That, by fostering growth in others, it would come back to her and help her grow. 

And, she was right. Nearly a decade and a half later I see what she’s continued to build after my departure and I’m amazed. She’s touched so many lives and helped so many people.

As I move forward in my journey to reevaluate my relationship with money, I aspire to lift the boats of others. 

I wish I had learned this lesson earlier, but that's just steeping myself in regret. All I can do is take the lesson in, reexamine those beliefs, and try to do better as I move on. 

[^1]: He actually said, “Wealthy people don't work for their money, poor people work for their money.” He was quoting the book “[Rich Dad, Poor Dad](https://www.richdad.com).”